@node Archie, AtExit, Apache/TieHandle, Module List
@unnumbered Perl module to make Archie queries via Prospero requests


@unnumberedsec NAME

Archie - Perl module to make Archie queries via Prospero requests

@unnumberedsec DESCRIPTION

The Archie module finds files available via anonymous ftp by making
requests to an Archie server.  The package communicates with the
Archie server via the Prospero protocol, which is layered on the
Asynchronous Reliable Delivery Protocol, which is layered on UDP.

The usual entry point is Archie::archie_request, which takes arguments
similar to the Unix archie command-line client, and returns an array
of hash references which point to the returned data.

The routine Archie::archie_cancel cancels the request on the server;
this stops the server from sending packets to a canceled client
process.

This release is $Revision: 1.5 $.

@unnumberedsec EXAMPLE

@example
use Archie;

$SIG@{@'INT@'@} = @'sig_handler@';

[...]
@@responses = Archie::archie_request($server,$match,$order, 
                                    $max_hits,$niceness,$user,
                                    $timeout,@@searchterms);
if ($Archie::ArchieErr) @{
    print "Error: $Archie::ArchieErr\n";
@}
else @{
    foreach $response (@@responses) @{
        print "name: $response->@{@'name@'@}\n";
        print "   host: $response->@{@'host@'@}\n";
        print "   type: $response->@{@'type@'@}\n";
        print "   dir: $response->@{@'dir@'@}\n";
        print "   size: $response->@{@'size@'@}\n";
        print "   mode: $response->@{@'mode@'@}\n";
        print "   lastmod: $response->@{@'lastmod@'@}\n";
    @}
@}

sub sig_handler @{
    my($sig) = @@_;
    &Archie::archie_cancel();
    exit;
@}
@end example

@unnumberedsec NOTES

The Prospero parser is incomplete and only really deals
with standard Archie responses -- this should be generalized.

The archie service was conceived and implemented by Alan Emtage, Peter
Deutsch, and Bill Heelan.  The entire Internet is in their debt.

The Prospero system was created by Clifford Neuman <bcn@@isi.edu>;
write to <info-prospero@@isi.edu> for more information on the protocol
and its use.

@unnumberedsec SEE ALSO

The archie man pages.

Information about Prospero and ARDP is available from ftp.isi.edu.

@unnumberedsec AUTHOR

Greg Bossert <bossert@@noc.rutgers.edu

