@node CGI/XA, CPAN, CGI/Wrap, Module List
@unnumbered Clone of CGI.pm with less backwards compatibility and less namespace pollution


@unnumberedsec NAME

CGI::XA - Clone of CGI.pm with less backwards compatibility and less namespace pollution

@unnumberedsec SYNOPSIS

@example
use CGI::XA;
# then follow the CGI.pm docs and see if it does the same.
@end example

@unnumberedsec BE AWARE, THIS IS ALPHA SOFTWARE

It@'s main purpose is to start a discussion about CGI.pm. Maybe parts
of this will be folded back to CGI.pm, and then probably this module
won@'t be developed any further.

@unnumberedsec DESCRIPTION

I have started with major hacks on top of Lincoln@'s version 2.23 of
CGI.pm in order to get rid of both AUTOLOADING and uncontrolled
global variables.

I release this package as CGI::XA (which stands for "for Apache")
for a limited audience as a test case.

This software is alpha software and it is not clear if it will be
supported for a longer time. My preferred solution would be, Lincoln
accepts (most of) the changes and continues with his excellent work.

@unnumberedsubsec where are the main differences?

@example
No AUTOLOAD
use strict clean
no exports
no cgi-lib.pl compatibility
no "Q" namespace
abandoned the rearrange method in several places
@end example

@unnumberedsubsec DOCUMENTATION

is in CGI.pm with which we are quite compatible with. See comments in
the code. If you could supply test cases for methods that are not
depending on a browser, we@'d be glad to hear from you.

@unnumberedsec AUTHOR

Lincoln D. Stein is th author of the original code which was the basis
for this development. Responsibility is with Andreas König
<andreas.koenig@@mind.de>

@unnumberedsec SEE ALSO

perl(1), Apache(3), Apache::Switch(3).

