@node Convert/UU, Crypt/DES, ConfigFile, Module List
@unnumbered Perl module for uuencode and uudecode


@unnumberedsec NAME

Convert::UU, uuencode, uudecode - Perl module for uuencode and uudecode

@unnumberedsec SYNOPSIS

@example
use Convert::UU qw(uudecode uuencode);
$encoded_string = uuencode($string,[$filename],[$mode]);
($string,$filename,$mode) = uudecode($string);
$string = uudecode($string); # in scalar context
@end example

@unnumberedsec DESCRIPTION

uuencode() takes as the first argument a scalar that is to be
uuencoded. Alternatively a filehandle may be passed that must be
opened for reading. It returns the uuencoded string including begin
and end. Second and third argument are optional and specify filename and
mode. If unspecified these default to "uuencode.uu" and 644.

uudecode() takes a string as argument which will be uudecoded. If the
argument is a filehandle this will be read instead. Leading and
trailing garbage will be ignored. The function returns the uudecoded
string for the first begin/end pair. In array context it returns an
array whose first element is the uudecoded string, the second is the
filename and the third is the mode.

@unnumberedsec EXPORT

Both uudecode and uuencode are in @@EXPORT_OK.

@unnumberedsec PORTABILITY

No effort has been made yet to port this module to non UNIX operating
systems. Volunteers are welcome.

@unnumberedsec AUTHOR

Andreas Koenig <andreas.koenig@@mind.de>. With code stolen from
Hans Mulder <hansm@@wsinti05.win.tue.nl> and Randal L. Schwartz
<merlyn@@teleport.com>.

@unnumberedsec SEE ALSO

puuencode(1), puudecode(1) for examples of how to use this module.

