@node Crypt/DES, Crypt/IDEA, Convert/UU, Module List
@unnumbered Perl interface to DES block cipher


@unnumberedsec NAME

DES - Perl interface to DES block cipher

@unnumberedsec SYNOPSIS

@example
use Crypt::DES;

@end example

@unnumberedsec DESCRIPTION

This perl extension is an implementation of the DES block cipher algorithm.
The module implements the Crypt::BlockCipher interface,
which has the following methods

@table @asis
@item blocksize =item keysize =item encrypt =item decrypt
@end table
@unnumberedsec FUNCTIONS

@table @asis
@item blocksize
Returns the size (in bytes) of the block cipher.

@item keysize
Returns the size (in bytes) of the key.

@item new
@example
my $cipher = new DES $key;
@end example

This creates a new DES BlockCipher object, using $key,
where $key is a key of @code{keysize()} bytes.

@item encrypt
@example
my $cipher = new DES $key;
my $ciphertext = $cipher->encrypt($plaintext);
@end example

This function encrypts $plaintext and returns the $ciphertext
where $plaintext and $ciphertext should be of @code{blocksize()} bytes.

@item decrypt
@example
my $cipher = new DES $key;
my $plaintext = $cipher->decrypt($ciphertext);
@end example

This function decrypts $ciphertext and returns the $plaintext
where $plaintext and $ciphertext should be of @code{blocksize()} bytes.

@end table
@unnumberedsec EXAMPLE

@example
my $key = pack("H16", "0123456789ABCDEF");
my $cipher = new DES $key;
my $ciphertext = $cipher->encrypt("plaintex");	# NB - 8 bytes
print unpack("H16", $ciphertext), "\n";
@end example

@unnumberedsec SEE ALSO

Crypt::IDEA

Bruce Schneier, @emph{Applied Cryptography}, 1995, Second Edition,
published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

@unnumberedsec COPYRIGHT

The implementation of the DES algorithm was developed by,
and is copyright of, Eric Young (eay@@mincom.oz.au).
Other parts of this perl extension are
copyright of Systemics Ltd ( http://www.systemics.com/ ).
