@node ExtUtils/Install, ExtUtils/Liblist, ExtUtils/Embed, Module List
@unnumbered install files from here to there


@unnumberedsec NAME

ExtUtils::Install - install files from here to there

@unnumberedsec SYNOPSIS

@strong{use ExtUtils::Install;}

@strong{install($hashref,$verbose,$nonono);}

@strong{uninstall($packlistfile,$verbose,$nonono);}

@strong{pm_to_blib($hashref);}

@unnumberedsec DESCRIPTION

Both install() and uninstall() are specific to the way
ExtUtils::MakeMaker handles the installation and deinstallation of
perl modules. They are not designed as general purpose tools.

install() takes three arguments. A reference to a hash, a verbose
switch and a don@'t-really-do-it switch. The hash ref contains a
mapping of directories: each key/value pair is a combination of
directories to be copied. Key is a directory to copy from, value is a
directory to copy to. The whole tree below the "from" directory will
be copied preserving timestamps and permissions.

There are two keys with a special meaning in the hash: "read" and
"write". After the copying is done, install will write the list of
target files to the file named by @code{$hashref->@{write@}}. If there is
another file named by @code{$hashref->@{read@}}, the contents of this file will
be merged into the written file. The read and the written file may be
identical, but on AFS it is quite likely, people are installing to a
different directory than the one where the files later appear.

uninstall() takes as first argument a file containing filenames to be
unlinked. The second argument is a verbose switch, the third is a
no-don@'t-really-do-it-now switch.

pm_to_blib() takes a hashref as the first argument and copies all keys
of the hash to the corresponding values efficiently. Filenames with
the extension pm are autosplit. Second argument is the autosplit
directory.

