@node HTML/Entities, HTML/FormatPS, HTML/Element, Module List
@unnumbered Expand HTML entities in a string


@unnumberedsec NAME

decode - Expand HTML entities in a string

encode - Encode chars in a string using HTML entities

@unnumberedsec SYNOPSIS

@example
use HTML::Entities;
@end example

@example
$a = "V&aring;re norske tegn b&oslash;r &#230res";
decode_entities($a);
encode_entities($a, "\200-\377");
@end example

@unnumberedsec DESCRIPTION

The decode_entities() routine replaces valid HTML entities found
in the string with the corresponding ISO-8859/1 character.

The encode_entities() routine replaces the characters specified by the
second argument with their entity representation.  The default set of
characters to expand are control chars, high-bit chars and the @'<@',
@'&@', @'>@' and @'"@' character.

Both routines modify the string passed in as the first argument and
return it.

If you prefer not to import these routines into your namespace you can
call them as:

@example
use HTML::Entities ();
$encoded = HTML::Entities::encode($a);
$decoded = HTML::Entities::decode($a);
@end example

The module can also export the %char2entity and the %entity2char
hashes which contains the mapping from all characters to the
corresponding entities.

@unnumberedsec COPYRIGHT

Copyright 1995, 1996 Gisle Aas. All rights reserved.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

@unnumberedsec AUTHOR

Gisle Aas <aas@@sn.no>

