@node HTML/FormatPS, HTML/FormatText, HTML/Entities, Module List
@unnumbered Format HTML as postscript


@unnumberedsec NAME

HTML::FormatPS - Format HTML as postscript

@unnumberedsec SYNOPSIS

@example
require HTML::FormatPS;
$html = parse_htmlfile("test.html");
$formatter = new HTML::FormatPS
		   FontFamily => @'Helvetica@',
		   PaperSize  => @'Letter@';
print $formatter->format($html);
@end example

@unnumberedsec DESCRIPTION

The HTML::FormatPS is a formatter that outputs PostScript code.
Formatting of HTML tables and forms is not implemented.

You might specify the following parameters when constructing the formatter:

@table @asis
@item PaperSize
What kind of paper should we format for.  The value can be one of
these: A3, A4, A5, B4, B5, Letter, Legal, Executive, Tabloid,
Statement, Folio, 10x14, Quarto.

The default is "A4".

@item PaperWidth
The width of the paper in points.  Setting PaperSize also defines this
value.

@item PaperHeight
The height of the paper in points.  Setting PaperSize also defines
this value.

@item LeftMargin
The left margin in points.

@item RightMargin
The right margin in points.

@item HorizontalMargin
Both left and right margin at the same time.  The default value is 4 cm.

@item TopMargin
The top margin in points.

@item BottomMargin
The bottom margin in points.

@item VerticalMargin
Both top and bottom margin at the same time.  The default value is 2 cm.

@item PageNo
The parameter determines if we should put page numbers on the pages.
The default is yes, so you have to set this value to 0 in order to
suppress page numbers.

@item FontFamily
The parameter specifies which family of fonts to use for the formatting.
Legal values are "Courier", "Helvetica" and "Times".  The default is
"Times".

@item FontScale
All fontsizes might be scaled by this factor.

@item Leading
How much space between lines.  This is a factor of the fontsize used
for that line.  Default is 0.1.

@end table
@unnumberedsec SEE ALSO

@xref{HTML/Formatter,HTML/Formatter},

@unnumberedsec COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 1995 Gisle Aas. All rights reserved.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

@unnumberedsec AUTHOR

Gisle Aas <aas@@oslonett.no>

