@node Parext, Pari, POSIX, Module List
@unnumbered Parity (odd/even) handling functions


@unnumberedsec NAME

String::Parext, setSpaceParity, setMarkParity, showParext, SpaceBytes,
MarkBytes, isSpaceParity, isMarkParity - Parity (odd/even) handling functions

@unnumberedsec SYNOPSIS

@example
use String::Parext;
@end example

@unnumberedsec DESCRIPTION

@table @asis
@item setSpaceParity LIST
Copies the elements of LIST to a new list and converts the new elements to
strings of bytes with space parity (High bit cleared). In array context
returns the new list.  In scalar context joins the elements of the new
list into a single string and returns the string.

@item setMarkParity LIST
Does the same as the setSpaceParity function, but converts to strings with
mark parity (High bit set).

@item showParext LIST
Does the same as the setSpaceParity function, but converts bytes with space
parity to @'s@' and other bytes to @'m@'.

@item SpaceBytes LIST
Returns the number of space parity bytes in the elements of LIST.

@item MarkBytes LIST
Returns the number of mark parity bytes in the elements of LIST.

@item isSpaceParity LIST
Returns TRUE if the LIST contains no byte with mark parity, FALSE otherwise.

@item isMarkParity LIST
Returns TRUE if the LIST contains no byte with space parity, FALSE otherwise.

@end table
@unnumberedsec NOTES

Don@'t use this module unless you have to communicate with some old device
or protocol. Help the world and make your application 8 bit clean. Use the
internationally standardized ISO-8859-1 character set.

@unnumberedsec AUTHOR

Winfried Koenig <win@@in.rhein-main.de>

@example
Copyright (c) 1995 Winfried Koenig. All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
@end example

