@node Parity, Penguin/Easy, Pari, Module List
@unnumbered Parity (mark/space) handling functions


@unnumberedsec NAME

String::Parity, setEvenParity, setOddParity, showParity, EvenBytes,
OddBytes, isEvenParity, isOddParity - Parity (mark/space) handling functions

@unnumberedsec SYNOPSIS

@example
use String::Parity;
@end example

@unnumberedsec DESCRIPTION

@table @asis
@item setEvenParity LIST
Copies the elements of LIST to a new list and converts the new elements to
strings of bytes with even parity. In array context returns the new list.
In scalar context joins the elements of the new list into a single string
and returns the string.

@item setOddParity LIST
Does the same as the setEvenParity function, but converts to strings with
odd parity.

@item showParity LIST
Does the same as the setEvenParity function, but converts bytes with even
parity to @'e@' and other bytes to @'o@'.

@item EvenBytes LIST
Returns the number of even parity bytes in the elements of LIST.

@item OddBytes LIST
Returns the number of odd parity bytes in the elements of LIST.

@item isEvenParity LIST
Returns TRUE if the LIST contains no byte with odd parity, FALSE otherwise.

@item isOddParity LIST
Returns TRUE if the LIST contains no byte with even parity, FALSE otherwise.

@end table
@unnumberedsec NOTES

Don@'t use this module unless you have to communicate with some old device
or protocol. Help the world and make your application 8 bit clean. Use the
internationally standardized ISO-8859-1 character set.

@unnumberedsec AUTHOR

Winfried Koenig <win@@in.rhein-main.de>

@example
Copyright (c) 1995 Winfried Koenig. All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
@end example

