@node SyslogScan/SendmailLineTo, SyslogScan/SendmailUtil, SyslogScan/SendmailLineFrom, Module List
@unnumbered encapsulates a @'To:@' line in a syslog file


@unnumberedsec NAME

SyslogScan::SendmailLineTo -- encapsulates a @'To:@' line in a syslog file

@unnumberedsec DESCRIPTION

Here is a sample SendmailLineTo object.

If @'new SyslogScan::SendmailLineEntry@' reads in a line like

Jun 13 01:50:48 satellife sendmail[23498]: WAA18677: to=mbe527@@time.nums.nwu.edu,jsm341@@anima.nums.nwu.edu, delay=03:52:42, mailer=smtp, relay=anima.nums.nwu.edu. [165.124.50.10], stat=Sent (AA097917369 Message accepted for delivery)

then it will return a SyslogScan::SendmailLineTo object like this:

@example
# generic SyslogScan::SyslogEntry stuff
day => 13,
executable => @'sendmail@',
machine => @'satellife@',
messageID => @'WAA18677@',
month => @'Jun@',
tag => 23498,
content => @'WAA18677: to=mbe527@@time.nums.nwu.edu,jsm341@@anima.nums.nwu.edu, delay=03:52:42, mailer=smtp, relay=anima.nums.nwu.edu. [165.124.50.10], stat=Sent (AA097917369 Message accepted for delivery)@',
@end example

@example
# sendMailLineTo-specific stuff
messageID => @'WAA18677@'
toList => (mbe527@@time.nums.nwu.edu, jsm341@@anima.nums.nwu.edu)
attrHash => (
         @'delay@' => @'03:52:42@',
         @'mailer@' => @'smtp@',
         @'relay@' => @'anima.nums.nwu.edu. [165.124.50.10]@',
         @'stat@' => @'Sent (AA097917369 Message accepted for delivery)@',
         @'to@' => @'mbe527@@time.nums.nwu.edu,jsm341@@anima.nums.nwu.edu@'
	 )
@end example

@unnumberedsec AUTHOR and COPYRIGHT

The author (Rolf Harold Nelson) can currently be e-mailed as
rolf@@usa.healthnet.org.

This code is Copyright (C) SatelLife, Inc. 1996.  All rights reserved.
This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

In no event shall SatelLife be liable to any party for direct,
indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages arising out of
the use of this software and its documentation (including, but not
limited to, lost profits) even if the authors have been advised of the
possibility of such damage.

@unnumberedsec SEE ALSO

@xref{SyslogScan/SendmailLineTo,SyslogScan/SendmailLineTo},
