@node SyslogScan/SendmailUtil, SyslogScan/Summary, SyslogScan/SendmailLineTo, Module List
@unnumbered utilities for sendmail packages.


@unnumberedsec NAME

SendmailUtil.pm -- utilities for sendmail packages.

@unnumberedsec SYNOPSIS

@example
use SyslogScan::SendmailUtil;
@end example

@example
open(FH,"/var/log/syslog");
my $transfer;
while ($transfer = SyslogScan::SendmailUtil::getNextMailTranfer(\*FH))
@{
   # process the tranfer
@}
@end example

@unnumberedsec DESCRIPTION

getNextMailTransfer queries a filehandle pointing to a syslog for the
next line which is a sendmail @'To:@', @'From:@', and @'Clone:@' lines, and
returns a SyslogScan::SendmailLineFrom, SyslogScan::SendmailLineTo, or
SyslogScan::SendmailLineClone object.

@unnumberedsec canonAddress() routine

The canonAddress() routine modifies the address of the Sendmail
routines to be all-lowercase, remove enclosing brackets, and append
@'@@localhost@' to local addresses.  Modifying this routine will change
how SyslogScan canonicalizes.

@unnumberedsec AUTHOR and COPYRIGHT

The author (Rolf Harold Nelson) can currently be e-mailed as
rolf@@usa.healthnet.org.

This code is Copyright (C) SatelLife, Inc. 1996.  All rights reserved.
This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

In no event shall SatelLife be liable to any party for direct,
indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages arising out of
the use of this software and its documentation (including, but not
limited to, lost profits) even if the authors have been advised of the
possibility of such damage.

@unnumberedsec SEE ALSO

@xref{SyslogScan/SendmailLineFrom,SyslogScan/SendmailLineFrom},, @xref{SyslogScan/SendmailLineTo,SyslogScan/SendmailLineTo},,
@xref{SyslogScan/SyslogEntry,SyslogScan/SyslogEntry},
