@node Tk/FileDialog, Tk/SelFile, Time/Zone, Module List
@unnumbered A highly configurable File Dialog widget for Perl/Tk.  


@unnumberedsec NAME

Tk::FileDialog - A highly configurable File Dialog widget for Perl/Tk.  

@unnumberedsec DESCRIPTION

The widget is composed of a number
of sub-widgets, namely, a listbox for files and (optionally) directories, an entry
for filename, an (optional) entry for pathname, an entry for a filter pattern, a @'ShowAll@'
checkbox (for enabling display of .* files and directories), and three buttons, namely
OK, Rescan, and Cancel.  Note that the labels for all subwidgets (including the text
for the buttons and Checkbox) are configurable for foreign language support.
The Listboxes will respond to characters typed over them with scrolling to
the first line that starts with the given character (or next etc. if this
character is not present).

@unnumberedsec SYNOPSIS

@unnumberedsubsec Usage Description

To use FileDialog, simply create your FileDialog objects during initialization (or at
least before a Show).  When you wish to display the FileDialog, invoke the @'Show@' method
on the FileDialog object;  The method will return either a file name, a path name, or
undef.  undef is returned only if the user pressed the Cancel button.

@unnumberedsubsec Example Code

The following code creates a FileDialog and calls it.  Note that perl5.002gamma is
required.

@table @asis
@item 
@example
#!/usr/local/bin/perl -w
@end example

@example
use Tk;
use Tk::FileDialog;
use strict;
@end example

@example
my($main) = MainWindow->new;
my($Horiz) = 1;
my($fname);
@end example

@example
my($LoadDialog) = $main->FileDialog(-Title =>@'This is my title@',
				    -Create => 0);
@end example

@example
print "Using FileDialog Version ",$LoadDialog->Version,"\n";
@end example

@example
$LoadDialog->configure(-FPat => @'*pl@',
		       -ShowAll => @'NO@');
@end example

@example
$main->Entry(-textvariable => \$fname)
	->pack(-expand => 1,
	       -fill => @'x@');
@end example

@example
$main->Button(-text => @'Kick me!@',
	      -command => sub @{
		  $fname = $LoadDialog->Show(-Horiz => $Horiz);
		  if (!defined($fname)) @{
		      $fname = "Fine,Cancel, but no Chdir anymore!!!";
		      $LoadDialog->configure(-Chdir =>@'NO@');
		  @}
	      @})
	->pack(-expand => 1,
	       -fill => @'x@');
@end example

@example
$main->Checkbutton(-text => @'Horizontal@',
		   -variable => \$Horiz)
	->pack(-expand => 1,
	       -fill => @'x@');
@end example

@example
$main->Button(-text => @'Exit@',
	      -command => sub @{
		  $main->destroy;
	      @})
	->pack(-expand => 1,
	       -fill => @'x@');
@end example

@example
MainLoop;
@end example

@example
print "Exit Stage right!\n";
@end example

@example
exit;
@end example

@end table
@unnumberedsec METHODS

@table @asis
@item 
The following non-standard methods may be used with a FileDialog object

@item 
@end table
@unnumberedsubsec Show

Displays the file dialog box for the user to operate.  Additional configuration
items may be passed in at Show-time In other words, this code snippet:

@example
$fd->Show(-Title => @'Ooooh, Preeeeeety!@');
@end example

is the same as this code snippet:

@example
$fd->configure(-Title => @'Ooooh, Preeeeeety!@');
$fd->Show;
@end example

@table @asis
@item 
@end table
@unnumberedsubsec Version

Returns the current Version of FileDialog

@unnumberedsec CONFIGURATION

Any of the following configuration items may be set via the configure (or Show) method,
or retrieved via the cget method.

@unnumberedsubsec Flags

Flags may be configured with either 1,@'true@', or @'yes@' for 1, or 0, @'false@', or @'no@'
for 0. Any portion of @'true@', @'yes@', @'false@', or @'no@' may be used, and case does not
matter.

@table @asis
@item 
@end table
@unnumberedsubsec -Chdir

@table @asis
@item 
Enable the user to change directories. The default is 1. If disabled, the directory
list box will not be shown.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec -Create

@table @asis
@item 
Enable the user to specify a file that does not exist. If not enabled, and the user
specifies a non-existent file, a dialog box will be shown informing the user of the
error (This Dialog Box is configurable via the EDlg* switches, below).

default: 1

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec -ShowAll

@table @asis
@item 
Determines whether hidden files (.*) are displayed in the File and Directory Listboxes.
The default is 0. The Show All Checkbox reflects the setting of this switch.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec -DisableShowAll

@table @asis
@item 
Disables the ability of the user to change the status of the ShowAll flag. The default
is 0 (the user is by default allowed to change the status).

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec -Grab

@table @asis
@item 
Enables the File Dialog to do an application Grab when displayed. The default is 1.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec -Horiz

@table @asis
@item 
True sets the File List box to be to the right of the Directory List Box. If 0, the
File List box will be below the Directory List box. The default is 1.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec -SelDir

@table @asis
@item 
If True, enables selection of a directory rather than a file, and disables the
actions of the File List Box. The default is 0.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec Special

@table @asis
@item 
@end table
@unnumberedsubsec -FPat

@table @asis
@item 
Sets the default file selection pattern. The default is @'*@'. Only files matching
this pattern will be displayed in the File List Box.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec -Geometry

@table @asis
@item 
Sets the geometry of the File Dialog. Setting the size is a dangerous thing to do.
If not configured, or set to @'@', the File Dialog will be centered.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec -SelHook

@table @asis
@item 
SelHook is configured with a reference to a routine that will be called when a file
is chosen. The file is called with a sole parameter of the full path and file name
of the file chosen. If the Create flag is disabled (and the user is not allowed
to specify new files), the file will be known to exist at the time that SelHook is
called. Note that SelHook will also be called with directories if the SelDir Flag
is enabled, and that the FileDialog box will still be displayed. The FileDialog box
should @strong{not} be destroyed from within the SelHook routine, although it may generally
be configured.

SelHook routines return 0 to reject the selection and allow the user to reselect, and
any other value to accept the selection. If a SelHook routine returns non-zero, the
FileDialog will immediately be withdrawn, and the file will be returned to the caller.

There may be only one SelHook routine active at any time. Configuring the SelHook
routine replaces any existing SelHook routine. Configuring the SelHook routine with
0 removes the SelHook routine. The default SelHook routine is undef.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec Strings

The following two switches may be used to set default variables, and to get final
values after the Show method has returned (but has not been explicitly destroyed
by the caller)

@table @asis
@item 
@strong{-File}  The file selected, or the default file. The default is @'@'.

@strong{-Path}  The path of the selected file, or the initial path. The default is $ENV@{@'HOME@'@}.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec Labels and Captions

For support of internationalization, the text on any of the subwidgets may be
changed.

@table @asis
@item 
-Title  The Title of the dialog box. The default is @'Select File:@'.

@strong{-DirLBCaption}  The Caption above the Directory List Box. The default is @'Directories@'.

@strong{-FileLBCaption}  The Caption above the File List Box. The default is @'Files@'.

@strong{-FileEntryLabel}  The label to the left of the File Entry. The Default is @'Filename:@'.

@strong{-PathEntryLabel}  The label to the left of the Path Entry. The default is @'Pathname:@'.

@strong{-FltEntryLabel}  The label to the left of the Filter entry. The default is @'Filter:@'.

@strong{-ShowAllLabel}  The text of the Show All Checkbutton. The default is @'Show All@'.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec Button Text

For support of internationalization, the text on the three buttons may be changed.

@table @asis
@item 
@strong{-OKButtonLabel}  The text for the OK button. The default is @'OK@'.

@strong{-RescanButtonLabel}  The text for the Rescan button. The default is @'Rescan@'.

@strong{-CancelButtonLabel}  The text for the Cancel button. The default is @'Cancel@'.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec Error Dialog Switches

If the Create switch is set to 0, and the user specifies a file that does not exist,
a dialog box will be displayed informing the user of the error. These switches allow
some configuration of that dialog box.

@table @asis
@item 
@end table
@unnumberedsubsec -EDlgTitle

@table @asis
@item 
The title of the Error Dialog Box. The default is @'File does not exist!@'.

@end table
@unnumberedsubsec -EDlgText

@table @asis
@item 
The message of the Error Dialog Box. The variables $path, $file, and $filename
(the full path and filename of the selected file) are available. The default
is @emph{"You must specify an existing file.\n(\$filename not found)"}

@end table
@unnumberedsec Author

@strong{Brent B. Powers, Merrill Lynch (B2Pi)}

powers@@ml.com

This code may be distributed under the same conditions as Perl itself.

