@node WWW/Search/AltaVista, WWW/SearchResult, WWW/Search, Module List
@unnumbered class for searching Alta Vista 


@unnumberedsec NAME

WWW::Search::AltaVista - class for searching Alta Vista 

@unnumberedsec DESCRIPTION

This class is an AltaVista specialization of WWW::Search.
It handles making and interpreting AltaVista searches
@file{http://www.altavista.digital.com}.

This class exports no public interface; all interaction should
be done through WWW::Search objects.

@unnumberedsec SEE ALSO

To make new back-ends, see @xref{WWW/Search,WWW/Search},.

@unnumberedsec HOW DOES IT WORK?

@code{native_setup_search} is called before we do anything.
It initializes our private variables (which all begin with underscores)
and sets up a URL to the first results page in @code{@{_next_url@}}.

@code{native_retrieve_some} is called (from @code{WWW::Search::retrieve_some})
whenever more hits are needed.  It calls the LWP library
to fetch the page specified by @code{@{_next_url@}}.
It parses this page, appending any search hits it finds to 
@code{@{cache@}}.  If it finds a @`@`next@'@' button in the text,
it sets @code{@{_next_url@}} to point to the page for the next
set of results, otherwise it sets it to undef to indicate we@'re done.

@unnumberedsec AUTHOR

@code{WWW::Search} is written by John Heidemann, <johnh@@isi.edu>.

@unnumberedsec COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 1996 University of Southern California.
All rights reserved.                                            
                                                               
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation, advertising
materials, and other materials related to such distribution and use
acknowledge that the software was developed by the University of
Southern California, Information Sciences Institute.  The name of the
University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

